so the Hebrews created history as we
know it
don't get away with anything and so you
might think you can bend the fabric of
reality and that you can treat people
instrumentally and that you can bow to
the Tyrant and violate your conscience
without cost you will pay the piper it's
going to call you out of that slavery
into Freedom even if that pulls you into
the desert
and we're going to see that there's
something else going on here that is far
more Cosmic and deeper than what you can
imagine the highest ethical Spirit to
which we're beholden is presented
precisely as that spirit that allies
itself with the cause of Freedom against
tyranny I want villains to get punished
but do you want the villains to learn
before they have to pay the ultimate
price that's such a Christian question
on the one hand we have these
fundamentalist proclivities that seem to
manifest themselves in Islam and also in
other religions
and then we have the problem of having
to maintain peaceful relationships with
the Islamic culture as a whole and it's
not easy in the west to figure out how
to do both of those at the same time why
I mean I don't how do you not throw the
I don't get it why okay why look I'm
coming from a Muslim family
I'm not against my mother I'm not
against my father
I want
separation
between religion and politics here in
America we have First Amendment we have
freedom of expression we have free media
we can criticize whoever we want but in
my country when you criticize Harmony
you pay huge price which is your life so
that's why is that too much to ask that
when it comes to Iran when it comes to
Islamic Republic we have to get united
we have to get all together you have to
see this as bipartisan issue otherwise
believe me the Islamic Republic will get
United
via poutine with poutine madora China
all the dictators and they will end
democracy
[Music]
foreign
I've been wanting to cover the Uprising
in Iran for quite a long time and
finally made arrangements to do that and
have the privilege today of speaking
with Mazzy Elena Jad she is an Iranian
journalist and a rare example of an
honest and unwavering reporter even more
impressive is that she began her career
reporting on her own government taking
punishments such as her arrest in 1994
for Distributing leaflets with critical
views or her dismissal from her job as a
parliamentary reporter in 2005 for
publishing an article that called out
the parliament for taking massive
bonuses in secret while publicly
claiming they had taken pay cuts
in 2018 she released a book The Wind in
my hair which was critical of the
Iranian government's depiction
expectation and oppressive treatment of
women she's the founder of the my
stealthy Freedom Campaign against
compulsory hijab which since its
launched in 2014
has become the largest Civil
Disobedience campaign for women's rights
in the history of Islamic Republic
in 2022 the American Jewish committee
awarded her the moral courage award for
speaking out fearlessly in support of
the Iranian people who are still being
oppressed to put it mildly by their own
institutions
she currently lives in Exile in New York
City under FBI protection
since a coordinated kidnapping attempt
by the Islamic Republic of Iran's
intelligence Ministry was foiled in 2021
hello Missy thank you very much for
agreeing to talk to me today
thank you so much for having me Jordan
yeah so I don't know are you a brave
person are you a foolhardy person can
you just not control yourself like
you're putting yourself in an awful lot
of risk here and so
we'll walk through why that is and why
why do you think you're compelled to do
that and it looks like you've been doing
that to some degree almost your whole
life right even as a very young person
yeah so what is it about you that makes
you unable to
what would you say behave properly that
might be a way of thinking about it
that's funny I mean uh when you put it
in that way that maybe you cannot
control yourself or you're really Brave
this is what my mom used to say that
because I remember that in my tiny
village
um I was a troublemaker and people were
like
telling me that you cannot control
yourself and that was the way that they
were actually describing my
um you know my attitude towards uh
I've been told all my life what to do
what not to do so
I had two options in my tiny village to
listen to those who make decision over
my body over my you know everything
everything or
to be a rebel so for me being brave or
being Fearless it's something that I
grew up with it you know otherwise I had
to feel miserable every single day here
in America people might take every
single freedom for granted but I had to
fight for every single thing that I I
have now everything everything you know
I had a little brother who's able to
jump in the river in my beautiful
Village
who was able to go to Stadium to play
football to go you know everywhere that
he wanted to dance to sing
everything but I was banned from doing
all those activities just because of
being a girl
so that's why I had to
fight for every single thing and I have
to be brave
you know
yeah well it is it is clear that more
most people under those conditions will
submit to being obedient and to stay
silent and certainly that's been the
case in Iran for 30 years almost 25
years anyway since the Revolution and
although obviously more and more women
are speaking out now and and of course
more and more Iranians in general but
the run of the mill situation After the
Revolution was that
most women bore their
um
what would you say forced submission and
something approximating silence and so
I'm and and that is the normal run of
things and I do think there is something
temperamental about it I mean when you
when I read your the accounts of your
childhood it's pretty obvious that right
from the beginning you were a hard
person to push down and and it's very
interesting to see how different people
react under different situations do you
want to walk us through the your Origins
and talk about your early life a bit so
that everybody understands where you
came from and what your life was like so
and we'll we'll talk about that in
parallel with the political situation in
Iran sure I mean
I mean um I don't think Iranian women
Chen
he like obedient at all women in the
Middle East
I mean all of them they are Rebel
because to us
it's the way to get our dignity back our
identity back there is a famous saying
actually in Persian that if you want
Iranian women to do something tell them
not to do
so anyway we'll practice our civil
disobedience and
look
um I was only two years old when the
Islamic revolution happened I remember I
used to actually challenging my parents
that why you overthrew the regime and
they were saying that because of poverty
we wanted to have a good life
and now what happened
poor or getting poorer every day and the
the corruption I mean only the relative
of the modelers are getting richer and I
was actually challenging my fellow
journalists activists editors that why
did you overthrew the regime why did you
were part of the Revolution and they
were saying that because we wanted to
gain uh more political Freedom what
happened the Islamic revolution became a
revolution against women so clearly we
lost all the freedom that we already had
like women were allowed to go to a
stadium women were allowed to choose
whether they want to wear hijab or not
women were allowed to choose any kind of
sports that they wanted to to join we
had female judges
we had female ministers we had female
singers Jordan in 21st century now women
are not allowed to sing so you see we
didn't gain any political freedom but we
lost all the social Freedom that we
already had so that is why
for women in Iran
every single day
it's like you are
uh you are part of the war that has been
imposed on us by the clerics by the
mullahs by the Islamic Republic and it's
not a fair battle it's not a fair War
because they have guns and bullets they
have power prison money they can execute
you we only have our body
we only have our voice
we only have our social media and I had
to use every single thing like my body
my voice my hair my social media to
fight them back so that is why I don't
think Iranian women or women in the
Middle East women in Afghanistan as you
see right now can accept everything I
mean our body became like a political
platform for Taliban Islamic Republic
and Isis and they write their own
ideology on our body and we have to
carry it every day
we don't accept that so that is why this
isn't in our nature let's walk through
the the situation in 1979 so I'm about
20 years older than you I believe and so
I can remember a lot of what happened in
that period And in the west the the uh
the state that was run by the Shah of
Iran was very unpopular especially among
left-wing activists they regarded as a
corrupt petrol State and believed that
the Shah was fundamentally an oppressive
autocrat and certainly by Western
standards his government could have been
radically improved but the consequences
of the Iranian Revolution as you pointed
out were certainly not what anyone had
hoped for except the tiny minority of
people who actually instigated the
Revolution and so we went the world went
in relationship
to Iran from a autocracy that was much
more liberal in the manner that you
describe especially in relationship to
women and where a fair bit of economic
progress had been made despite the flaws
of the regime to an unbelievably
repressive Theocratic State and one of
the things that you point out is that
one of the elements of this Islamic
revolution A peculiar element was the
focus of repression on women and so I'm
very curious about that what do you
think it was about the doctrine that
drove the Iranian Revolution that caused
the primary consequence perhaps or
arguably at least the primary
consequence to be
the large-scale elimination of women
from the from the from well from almost
every form of Freedom what was it about
the doctrine that produced that yeah it
will it's not only about women let me
actually give you an example about how
minority being oppressed right after the
revolution Mass executions happen and I
remember that when the Jews were being
executed people were saying that right
after the revolution that we're not Jews
so we're not gonna get involved then
Baha'i minority got executed look
Ibrahim right you see the Butcher of
Iran who is now the president which we
don't call it president but
um he's in charge he was the one
actually he ordered Massacre Mass
executions more than 5 000 people got
executed by his order you know and then
um women and then women you know it's
just it's very heartbreaking I cannot
even believe that I'm sitting here in
21st century and talking to you and
telling you the same person who ordered
Mass executions right after the
revolution the Islamic revolution was
the one welcomed
here at the United Nation
I cannot believe that because because he
is actually the one right now right now
saying that the young political
Prisoners the young protesters who were
peacefully protesting over the brutal
death of maso amini the 20 year old girl
who got killed because of a little bit
of her hair was visible
now all those protesters are in prison
and Ibrahim raisy saying that we're
going to be tough with them they have to
you know see the punishment
so you see this I mean I back to like 40
years ago the whole world was supporting
the revolution
they were like actually congratulating
the Islamic Republic right after the
regime was over overthrown
but now many people they blessing the
you know the the Shah of Iran in the
streets and many people believe that yes
of course there was something like
should be reformed but not Revolution
you know but now we need a revolution
many people in the west saying that you
know buying actually buying the wrong
Narrative of the Islamic Republic and
its lobbyists and apologists and saying
that let's wait for the reform no this
is the time we need a revolution because
the Islamic Republic acting like an Isis
like Isis I mean
to millions of Iranian people women
minority Islamic Republic is an Isis
with oil
Isis just behead people the Islamic
Republic
hang people Isis took hostages like you
know this is what the Islamic Republic
did 40 years ago when they took American
diplomats hostage yes of course they
released them all but they still they
still having women like hostage
we are we are like hostage in the hand
of the Islamic Republic if we don't
cover ourselves we won't be able to get
any kind of education or job or we won't
exist if we don't cover our hair
in Iran in 21st century so it means the
Islamic Republic took the whole nation
they took Iran hostage so he said this
is Isis and we have to understand that
in 21st century we have to overthrow
this regime
Black Rifle coffee company is on a
mission to build a support network for
veterans First Responders and law
enforcement by serving you the best
coffee you've ever had thanks to your
support that dream has become a reality
this year alone Black Rifle coffee
donated over 120 000 bags of coffee to
Veterans and First Responders while
expanding their own team of active duty
service members veterans and Veteran
family members if you want to continue
supporting this incredible company go to
Black riflecoffee.com and use promo code
Jordan at checkout for 10 off your
purchase and your first coffee Club
order Black Rifle coffee is roasted by a
veteran-led team of expert coffee
graders here in the U.S and remember
it's your support that gets gear funding
and supplies into the hands of those on
our front lines the producers of the
show myself included love Black Rifle
coffee and find it the perfect go-to for
the morning commute to work as well as
work itself Black Rifle coffee gives us
the Boost we need expertly mixing Bold
Flavor and that much needed kick of
caffeine so go to Black riflecoffee.com
and use promo code Jordan for 10 off you
can also find Black Rifle coffee in
grocery and convenience stores near you
Black Rifle coffee America's coffee and
our preferred blend to enjoy alongside
the Jordan B Peterson podcast
a lot of what you write about in the in
the early part of your book that's the
wind in my hair is the increasing range
of restrictions that you experienced as
you grew up you you talk about when you
were quite young playing with your
brother and having a reasonable amount
of Freedom when you were extremely young
but then as you grew up and became more
conscious as well the number of things
that you couldn't do started to increase
and your range of options started to
decrease and so maybe we could walk
through that and I'm also curious what
do you think drives the antipathy
towards female Freedom that
characterizes the Iranian state do you
like do you see that do you see the
roots of that in something that's
formally religious or do you see that as
something more associated with I don't
even know how to understand it exactly
with a particular kind of man's Terror
of female attractiveness or like it it
it's very mysterious to me that there's
a whole culture dedicated now predicated
on the oppression of its own women it's
like you're so afraid of your women are
you what are you afraid they're going to
leave you or are you afraid they're not
going to be attracted to you have to
control every bloody thing they do is
and and how did you develop a theory
like that and you you know you said some
of the there was some of that in your
own family as your father wasn't exactly
an advocate for female Freedom yeah it's
it's linked to religion it is
religious dictatorship to me and
millions of other people about my own
family my mom was able to choose what
she wanted to wear before the Revolution
and I remember she was wearing colorful
dress colorful scarf but immediately
after the revolution when you see her
picture you get shocked I could only see
my mom's nose nose that's all I mean she
was all black so you see that was that
was
um the religious government they took
everything away from us and they made
men like the owner of uh uh the the
women and their family so it's not I
mean for years and years I've been
hearing that people saying that this is
part of the Middle Eastern people's
culture like wearing hijab or not going
to Stadium or not dancing not singing
this is part of your culture it's not it
is the culture of a religious
dictatorship
so for millions of Iranians who
experienced Sharia laws it's very clear
that the Islamic Republic right after
the revolution
tried to control the whole society
through women and that is why they use
our body like their own political
platform to to write their their
manifest on it see Afghanistan right now
what is the main main picture of
Afghanistan which was
over by Taliban
covering women's face
what was the main image of women when
they got yazidi women when they got free
from Isis you remember the picture of
women burning the compulsory veiling so
you see for us
it's not about a small piece of cloth
when we talk about compulsory hijab
compulsory job is like the main pillar
of religious dictatorship
it's like as I always say it's like the
Berlin Wall
you know and that is why the Islamic
Republic really
um like not willing to to Let It Go
you know they they rather kill teenagers
but they don't want to actually say that
we're going to get rid of morality
police we're going to get rid of
compulsory job because they know that we
the women of Iran are not just fighting
to get rid of morality producer
compulsory a job we see this compulsory
job like
black is in the DNA of religious
dictatorship it's in the DNA of a gender
apartheid regime so for us clearly we
want to get we want separation between
religious religion
and politics and this is 21st century
and I don't think this is too much to us
well okay so okay so so there's the
Sharia law issue there's the religious
issue then there's a psychological issue
that I want to delve into momentarily to
see if we can sort these things out a
little bit it's still a mystery to me in
some regard because it would it appears
to me and this is maybe just my Western
liberal bias that the optimal
relationship between a man and woman is
one of well first of all it's voluntary
and second of all there is an element of
playfulness about it if it's running
optimally right so there's love and
playfulness and care and all that
associated with it but the most radical
the most relevant part of all of that is
the fact that it's a voluntary
Association
and that's part of what makes it what
both tolerable for both parties and may
be enjoyable for both parties and but
it's also something that speaks to the
heart of the proper social contract in
relationship to
to long-term
um
well
to to any long-term Arrangement between
men and women so then I'm trying to
think about what it has to be like to be
a man who believes that women have to be
controlled in this manner and it has to
be and this is psychologically speaking
it has to be something like the belief
that unless you police women entirely in
all of their
behaviors especially anything that might
be attractive on the sexual front that
they'll want nothing to do with you and
they're completely untrustworthy it has
to be something like that because if you
leave women to their own devices well
then they're not going to have anything
to do with you and they're going to
flaunt their Wares so to speak to other
men and everything will fall apart and I
can't really imagine a more cowardly
attitude towards women than that the
attitude is unless you tell them what to
do all the time they're going to have
nothing to do with you and run off yeah
it's utterly pathetic and I don't think
that's exactly religious it seems to me
to be in some real sense it's even
deeper than religious it's it's it's
this appallingly second-rate psychology
of some notion of the relationship
between men and women unless it's based
on strict control and power there's no
possibility of an optimal relationship
because women are untrustworthy and
they're sexually provocative and they'll
just run off on you if you don't Police
Every bloody thing they do and that's so
pathetic and if that's the basis of your
entire polity which is the point you're
making with regards to the hijab you
can't see that that uh that a political
Society like that could be anything but
ultimately repressive
of course look but at the end of the day
um in my country Iran in Afghanistan in
the Middle East we see that
if the religion leave man alone leave
women alone we know how to handle our
life we know how to deal with uh any
kind of discrimination if we see through
culture or through men among our family
controlling us but when the law is
actually promoting violence and calling
men to be the owner of women then it's
getting worse and difficult you know
um I remember that for years and years
Iranian regime actually were like
braining like
um like brainwashed a whole
um Society especially through
educational system educating young boys
that you are the owner of your sister
so when we grow up in such Society
for instance we're being told that men
according to Shari Allah can marry four
wives they can have as much as uh women
that they want
and um oh my God women cannot
I mean as a woman if you show your hair
it's a crime but
men are allowed to actually do whatever
they want to do and in the name of Honor
men
father can kill his daughter I mean
these are facts that I'm telling you
like a girl in Iran Who removed her job
Saba kardashari received 24 years prison
sentence just because of removing her
hijab in Iran but a father who actually
beheaded
his daughter received only eight years
prison sentence so here
clearly we're talking about Sharia laws
actually
um
allowing men to control women to own
women
so as a feminist I believe that in my
country men are very Progressive I see
that how men now are walking in the
street toward morality police towards
Security Forces with open arm and saying
that we are ready to die but we are not
going to live our sisters who are
fighting for their dignity
so the Society of men are more
Progressive than the law the
establishment
and that's very very frustrating that
you see that through educational system
we're being told that hey you can kill
your sister but now the same man are
shouting industry like
mimira
saying that we rather die
but not live with humiliation because
men think that this is an insult to them
when the whole world like actually
saying us like this is your culture
Iranian men cannot control themselves
they can get excited if they see men's
uh women's unveiled women uh women's
hair women's body this is an insult to
man and to be honest I'm very proud of
like Iranian men and women now shoulder
to shoulder saying that
we want to get rid of this religious
dictatorship because it's not just an
insult to women this is an insult to man
as well
and that scares the Iranian regime so
you started to really
work as a political activist when you
weren't a very old teenager eh
you started writing pamphlets and
meeting politically how old were you
when you started doing that like you
left your village if I remember the
story correctly you left your small
village and went off to school how old
were you when you started to become
politically active I mean when you say
that you left your village it just
breaks my heart because
I got kicked out from everywhere I never
had a choice
um
I got kicked out from everywhere just
because of uh wanting to have dignity
and freedom first I got kicked out from
high school just because of you know
spreading pamphlets then I got kicked
out from my Village because it was a
scandal as a as a woman I was the first
one who got divorced I was the first one
who got kicked out from Iranian
Parliament I was the first one
who got pregnant before officially like
um being married and that was huge
Scandal you know and um in my Village I
don't have any space to stay because it
was not easy for my parents I was really
a scandal for all my family and then I
became a columnist
oh my God no I became a parliamentary
journalist I got kicked out from Iranian
Parliament just because of exposing the
corruption you know you you receive a
word if you do that in America if you
publish their pay slips the salary that
the member of the parliament received
you you will being you know appreciated
you receive award I got kicked out from
Iranian Parliament at the end I got
kicked out from from my homeland Iran
because
um
you know I had two options to stay in my
country and impose self-censorship on
myself and just stay quiet or leave it
on and be loud you know Jordan I
remember that I was a naughty girl and
Troublemaker in my Village my mom used
to say that when your uncle aunties
everyone were around you were making
noise your father was just kicking out
from the room
but you were able to find a window and
sneak into the same room
so my government kicked me out from
everywhere but I was able to find my
window to sneak to my homeland and now
my window is my social media you know
they kicked me out from Iran but they
they couldn't
they couldn't take Iran away from me
through my social media I'm there
um I have like more than 10 million
followers more than the ayatollahs all
together and I'm not an actress I'm not
a model I'm just giving voice to
voiceless people and I'm being in touch
with them every day so clearly yes
I didn't I didn't leave Iran
um they kicked me out but I am there
every day I as a teenager in a very
small village poor family I had black
and white TV
I was the one watching mola's telling me
what to do how to think what kind of
Lifestyle to follow but now all those
small laws through their own TV they're
watching me
and they know me by my name now you were
also you were also the target of a
kidnap plot I understand that was
orchestrated by the Iranian government
or at least that's the theory so do you
want to talk about that a little bit
um yes because that actually shows you
that when we the people of Iran are
fighting against Allah we are not just
fighting for ourselves here in America
miles away from Iran I was not safe I
was the target of the Islamic Republic
yes if if it was not the FBI is stopping
the kidnapping plot
I would have been in Iran and executed
like many other activists just you know
maybe Americans maybe your audiences
maybe people here when they
um listen to this story they think it's
like part of fiction I mean kidnapping
American citizen or trying to
assassinate American citizen on U.S soil
for you maybe it's like Hollywood
movie or fiction book but for us it's
the reality
it's fascinating kidnapping executing is
in the DNA of the Islamic Republic and
millions of Iranian family they
experience this just two years ago
Iranian regime did the same they
actually
and check one of the journalists from
France to Iraq they kidnapped him from
Iraq to Iran and they executed him
father of two children so that could
have happened to me and actually
um I remember done when the FBI came to
my house and they said that
um
this time was not about kidnapping this
time
uh the guy with loaded gun was arrested
in front of your house I was shocked I
was like Wow here in America I'm not
don't get me wrong I'm not scared of my
life at all but it is scary that you see
that the Iranian regime dared to
challenge the U.S authorities on their
soil that's a scary happening in front
of the eyes of free world that the
Iranian regime tried to kill uh you know
people abroad
so why aren't you afraid
to be honest I don't want to say that
I'm Not Afraid at all because look it's
not just about me it's about my step
children
it's about my my husband it's about my
neighbors my beautiful Neighbors in in
Brooklyn of course I'm scared of their
lives as well like imagine imagine if
the guy
had opened fire in Brooklyn how many of
my neighbors would have been killed
it is a scary but I'm not as scared of
my life because
um to be honest
I have only one life I love the way that
I is scared that regime I don't have
guns and bullets you see that I'm a very
tiny woman I'm even cold here I couldn't
like protect myself from a cold here but
look they're scared of me
they're scared of me and that's why they
send people here to kill me
so that gives me power you know and
there is no difference between my life
and the life of teenagers in Iran
I see that teenagers uh posting on their
social media and saying that I'm not
sure whether I'm gonna come back home or
not
oh my God
when teenagers are getting killed I go
to their social media and I read their
posts some of them post on their story
unbelievably Brave saying that this
might be the last day of my life
but the good day will come maybe I'm not
alive
you laugh on behalf of me
I see that teenagers writing on their
social media that
this land Iran didn't give me anything
but I give my life my head to free this
land from Allah these are not me saying
that teenagers writing these words and
going to the streets and facing guns and
bullets then you tell me what is
different between me and them I I I I
see them and I tell myself I have only
one life I don't want to live like
um like miserable and being scared and
living paranoia no
my heroes are women of Iran men in Iran
facing guns and bullets and saying that
we're not gonna live under humiliation
so that's why I'm not scared of my life
we'll be back in one moment first we
wanted to give you a sneak peek at
Jordan's new documentary logos and
literacy
I was very much struck by how the
translation of the biblical writings
jump started the development of literacy
across the entire world illiteracy was
the norm the pastor's home was the first
school and every morning it would begin
with singing the Christian faith is a
singing religion probably 80 percent of
scripture memorization today exists only
because of what is sung this is amazing
here we have a Gutenberg Bible Bible
printed on the price of Johann gubern
science and religion are opposing forces
in the world but historically that has
not been the case now the book is
available to everyone from Shakespeare
to modern education and medicine and
science to to civilization itself it is
the most influential book in all history
and hopefully people can walk away with
at least a sense of that
so when you talk about
the Iranian political State
post-revolution Post 1979 you describe
uh society that sounds like the radical
leftist caricature of Western Society
right it's intensely patriarchal it's
extremely misogynistic it's anti-woman
it's repressive it's hierarchical all
the power is aggregated into the hands
of a very small minority of people and
that's the reality on the ground in Iran
and that's not the reality in the U.S
and in the western world but the West is
often accused of that what what sort of
response have you got from the
progressive side of the political
Spectrum in the U.S in relationship to
the sorts of claims that you're making
about the Iranian state
to be honest um
it was a long road
we passed the time that we've been
ignored for years and years
um for years and years
um the progressive and left were quite
lost uh when I was saying that
compulsory hijab is not part of our
culture
when I was saying that as a woman who
grew up on their Sharia laws
I have the right to be scared of Islamic
ideology
for years and years I have been ignored
by many people in the west saying that
you're causing islamophobia when you
talk about compulsory hijab but to be
honest now because of The Bravery of
Iranian people within the society making
awareness finally I see that the media
left liberal Progressive celebrities
feminists finally
um are hearing us finally we are being
heard I mean recently when I saw that
CNN
covered the story of uh Iran's new
Revolution exposing that how women are
getting raped in prison
um I was sitting in my house watching
the the news I was crying
but at the same time
I was really proud that finally my
people in Iran made the whole world
um to hear them to understand that this
is a feminist Revolution being supported
by men in Iran and the Western liberal
in the western feminist uh
are paying attention to this finally so
I really appreciate that now especially
when I see that because of the pressure
from celebrities from media from
activists from feminists finally the
leaders of democratic countries are
changing their tone as well but of
course we need more of course we need
actions now all we see that
Biden Administration are changing their
tone they actually took the leadership
to kick out the Islamic Republic from uh
United Nations top women body
and I was like sitting in my house and I
was like wow this is happening this is
happening because just two years ago
when four Democratic countries voted for
the Islamic Republic to have a sit on
women's top body at the United Nations
we the women of Iran were alone
for alone we were shocked we were like
how come you're voting for a country
that do not even allow women to be their
true self just being our true self is a
crime and you're voting for our
oppressors to monitor women's rights
globally is like voting for Taliban
to monitor human rights globally but now
it's just unbelievable that the US
government took leadership to kick out
the Islamic Republic uh from United
Nations top what but this is just the
beginning
this is just the beginning so we need
more
well so there's a there's a couple of
mysteries there I mean one you just
pointed to
um we can expand on that a little bit I
mean I don't know if there's anything
more Preposterous that's happened
internationally although that's a hard
contest then the un's decision to
appoint Iran or to allow Iran to have a
permanent seat hypothetically permanent
seat on the international body that was
fundamentally responsible for the
monitoring and and regulation let's say
of women's rights so we have a mystery
there it's like that's so utterly
preposterous that it's almost impossible
to believe that the West ever agreed to
it to begin with and then we have
another mystery underneath that which is
that it's been an uphill battle for you
and for the people who are fighting for
freedom in Iran to convince the more
Progressive end of the spectrum
including Western feminists that the
regime that you're fighting against has
all the Hallmarks of the terrible
patriarchy that hypothetically they
oppose and so what in the world is the
reason that well first of all that
there's been this pro-iranian Moolah
sentiment in the west which is almost
completely incomprehensible and then
Allied without this in completely what
would you call it uh willful blindness
on the part of western feminists for
like 30 years with regards to the crimes
against women that had been occurring in
Iran like how do you account for that
it was heartbreaking for me not for me
for for women in Afghanistan right now
right now girls are being kicked out
from a school just because of being
girls women are being kicked out from
University
but still we don't see in the west like
women take to the streets
like you know there was a campaign
called bring our girls back when
I remember
when Michelle Obama actually launched
that campaign I was like
this is the US that I have been dreaming
to live when women's March happen here
in America I was like yes I was part of
the women's March I took to the streets
and I was calling my fellow activists in
Iran
with Joy saying that I cannot believe
I'm shouting my body my choice without
getting arrested without getting
harassed without being bullied in the
street without being uh
killed without being killed
I was like oh my God this is the America
that I you know I had dreamed to live
but
suddenly I was shocked
that when I I'm saying my body my choice
the same feminist go to my country and
they wear hijab in front of the Islamic
Republic not not even going to my
country
here in the West
my God here in the west some of the
female politicians the U.S Envoy for
Afghanistan wore hijab in front of
Taliban in the West
why
I don't get that I don't get that so
that's why maybe I'm really appreciative
now when I see finally the young girls
and teenagers
risk their lives they paid huge price to
make the whole world especially the
um Global feminist movement to
understand that this is the time that
you have to recognize this revolution
which is taking place in Iran and now
they are paying attention finally I
heard that President Obama actually said
that
um he regrets
Hillary Clinton said that
um she regrets by not supporting the
green movement in 2009 so we the people
of Iran actually now calling on the Free
World that this is the time
we have to see International women's
March for women of Iran and women of
Afghanistan
because otherwise
the history will judge
every single
Democratic country who could actually
support girls and women in Iran and
Afghanistan but they kept silent so I
see the progress I see that we are being
hurt but we need more actions first
the Democratic countries must actually
recognize this Revolution and recall
their ambassadors
this is not me saying that one million
Iranians signed a petition and asking
the leaders of G7 Democratic countries
to kick out Iranian diplomats
you know there is uh there is uh Iran's
interest section in Washington DC
Jordan I challenge every feminist to
come with me to go to Iran's interest
section to see that how here in the U.S
we get kicked out if we don't cover our
hair in 21st century they don't even
allow us to go to Iran's interest
section
why because we have to cover ourselves
according to Sharia laws why my people
my woman in Iran they risking their
lives they're practicing their Civil
Disobedience they remove their job why
should
uh we keep silent we can do that here
we can practice our civil disobedience
in Iran's interest section to show the
rest of the world that how barbaric this
regime is
so let me let me uh argue this a bit
from the side the hypothetically more
Progressive side because there's some
thorny issues here I mean one of the
things that people who tilt towards the
left in the west are concerned with is
that any
um negative press let's say in
relationship to the more
tyrannical elements of Islamic
fundamentalism has the negative
consequence of shedding a dim light on
the religious practices as a whole and
so people are rightly concerned I
suppose that
um
about distinguishing between valid
criticisms of the excesses of the
fundamentalists and generating a kind of
more Global let's call it islamophobia
that would inflame religious tensions
between the Christian world and the
Jewish world and the Islamic world and
so there's and there's there's this
there's this very thin line in some
sense that has to be walked such that we
can distinguish between the
fundamentalist totalitarianism
totalitarians and leave some respect for
the alternative
from the Western perspective for the
alternative Islamic culture in place and
I mean I've talked to a lot of Islamic
moderates
um people who are working to
put forward a more a vision of Islam
that's more commensurate say with a
liberal democracy and they're also
concerned about a kind of blanket
islamophobia and I think some of the
resistance on the part of the left to
criticizing regimes like Iran is this
fear that a more generalized quote
islamophobia might develop and so
to what degree and and it's an open
question in relationship to Iran too
like you you associate the totalitarian
prescriptions with Sharia law and
there's a religious element to that I
mean and people like um
um
she wrote Infidel Ayan Hersey Ali I mean
she's come out very strongly as an in
and as an anti-islamic Crusader in some
real sense and also a great promoter of
women's Freedom someone she's someone I
admire remarkably but it does leave us
with this thorny question right is that
on the one hand we have these
fundamentalist proclivities that seem to
manifest themselves in Islam and also in
other religions
and then we have the problem of having
to maintain peaceful relationships with
the Islamic culture as a whole and it's
not easy in the west to figure out how
to do both of those at the same time why
I mean I don't how do you not throw the
I don't get it why okay why look I'm
coming from a Muslim family
I'm not against my mother I'm not
against my father
I want
separation
between religion and politics is that
difficult to understand that I get
attacked by some people in the west
saying that uh when I criticized Sharia
laws when I criticize Islamic ideology
they saying that oh you are you're
anti-muslim you're
um I mean right actually I wrote an
article to criticize uh ilhanomar's
legislation her legislation is to uh
gathered information of those who are
causing islamophobia I wrote an article
for Washington Post I challenged her uh
that if we criticize Islamic Republic we
criticize Sharia laws we criticize
Taliban does it
um in your mind in your point of view uh
does it uh I mean is it going to cause
islamophobia I wanted her to clarify
what she means by it causing
islamophobia in the west because in my
country if we criticize Islam we get
hanged as mortad moharep means you are
Waging War against God
right now that I'm talking to you
uh more than 50 people are
um
in prison waiting to be hanged because
of Waging War against God or
um oh my God
spreading corruption on the Earth so
these are all according Sharia laws
legal people it's legal people can
people people get killed Hank executed
in the name of sharia laws in Iran so if
I criticize that in the west then I'm
causing islamophobia or I'm anti-muslim
so for me for me look I'm not scared of
being labeled of islamophobic at all
the the revolution is taking place in
Iran it's against Islamic Republic and
gender apartheid regime which actually
the Islamic Republic is against minority
it's against
um LGBT community it's against
environment it's against
um Baha'i Jewish all minority it's
against Kurds Turk baluch it's against
women it's against our dignity so these
are the values that we share with the
Western left and liberals these are the
values that you need is all these values
are Universal so what is wrong here in
the West in my opinion it's like
Democrats and Republicans cannot see
human rights abusing Iran
like bipartisan issue
for me I get attacked if I come to your
show by left and liberal if I go and um
ask the left and liberal to support our
cause I get attacked by right wings so
this is wrong
to be honest when it comes to Iran and
Afghanistan we should only care about
Universal values we to I'm going to be
very honest with you I really don't care
whether Trump is in power Biden is in
power or Obama is in power what I care
that the Islamic States should not be in
power in Iran and Afghanistan because at
the end of the day
here in America we have First Amendment
we have freedom of expression we have
free media we can criticize whoever we
want but in my country when you
criticize Harmony
you pay huge price which is your life so
that's why is that too much to ask uh
the I mean for media for policy makers
here politicians that when it comes to
Iran when it comes to Islamic Republic
we have to get united we have to get all
together
and give voice to Iranian people who
want to get rid of the Islamic Republic
because the Islamic Republic is not only
a threat for Iranians believe me the
Islamic Republic if they want to kill
Americans they never ask you whether you
are Republican or you're Democrat
whether you support LGBT community or
you don't support uh gay people they
kill you anyway because you are American
so that is why I call on Americans every
day every single Corner that I go that
when it comes to Iranian uh fight
against the Islamic Republic you have to
see this as bipartisan issue otherwise
believe me the Islamic Republic will get
United
by Putin with poutine Madura China all
the dictators and they will end
democracy how good are your Connections
in Iran right now how much of a sense do
you have of what's happening on the on
the ground what what is the situation in
Iran right now how widespread are the
protests who's participating what do you
see as the most likely outcome
right now the revolution in Iran which
is taking place is it's like a marathon
you know I'm not saying that we can
overthrew the regime overnight we have
really tough road ahead as you see that
18 000 people are in prison and more
than 50 of them are in death row they
are like two of them got executed
recently and the family members of the
political prisoners that I'm being in
touch with them they're really worried
about their beloved one
I mean Jordan just think about it you go
to prison just because of chanting for
freedom and then every morning you have
to be concerned that you're the next one
that you're going to be hanged
for wanting Freedom democracy and
dignity
that's very scary and when I talk to the
members of uh those political prisoners
they're really frustrated but what
amazed me
immediately when people get executed or
get killed in Iran
oh my God they're family members
um turning the funeral like massive
protest against the whole regime that's
very unique and it's very shocking that
the more that Iranian regime killed
people the more people get determined to
take back to the streets
so that is actually a significant sign
that the Iranian people are fed up with
the Islamic Republic and
they have a clear message that we were
we're going to to end this regime I mean
it's not easy actually to say that when
teenagers when children uh are getting
killed their family member are being
forced to go on TV and do false
confessions like the family members
sitting in front of camera and
denouncing their beloved one so this is
this is what's going on right now in
Iran but a lot of people are hopeful
they're very hopeful I mean the Iranian
regime took everything away from people
not hope they believe that with the help
of the Western countries less people
will get killed and we will win this
battle we will end this
um you know barbaric regime
let's talk a little bit about what might
constitute a path forward because you
could imagine that the regime is
overthrown that it it falls apart in
tatters let's say but
well one of the
one of the themes that's developed in
the biblical story of Exodus is the
notion The Narrative notion that when
you escape from a tyranny and you've
been slaves you don't go to the promised
land you go to the desert right and
that's a period of interminable
wandering and confusion and we've seen
this time and time again where an
oppressive centralized regime will
collapse and the consequence of that
isn't the recreation of a functional
polity but the dissent into something
like unbridled chaos and I mean Iran
could fragment there's all sorts of
tensions that are pulling it apart and
one of the things that I'm curious about
are your views about what might happen
that would actually be productive in the
Iranian context if this centralized
oppressive regime collapsed like why
wouldn't Iran just become a failed State
then what do you why are you optimistic
about the fact that a new form of
governance might emerge that's actually
very good questions because I often get
this questions from journalists even
Ordinary People in the west saying that
how you're that sure that Iran is not
going to be Libya Iran is not going to
be right right Syria you know what but
let's just compare Iran with our own
history
like back to 40 years ago why shouldn't
we compare Iran to our own history that
women and men were together they had
social Freedom we and it's it's so sad
that the Iranian regime is trying to
sell this narrative to the Western media
and saying that if you support this
revolution chaos gonna happen
this situation is is is is is is chaos
where women are getting raped
where minority getting killed where the
family members are going to prison just
because of asking why did you kill my
son why did you kill my daughter
this is Syria so the only reason that
Iran can be like Syria is the Islamic
Republic
is this barbaric models
so for for me and millions of Iranians
it's clear that we know what we want if
we get rid of the Islamic Republic we
want to have fair and free election
then we can choose the kind of
government that we want them to to run
the country
and believe me when you open the doors
of prison
all those political prisoners right now
are being suffering under uh the Islamic
Republic they can run the country better
than these backward mullers
many educated people outside Iran many
intellectual
Elites who were forced to leave Iran now
they are ready to run the country and
believe me they can run the country
better than clerics better than molars
so this is to me clear that the Iranian
regime trying to to sell this narrative
but believe me as far as the Islamic
Republic is in power
the whole world cannot be safe place
right now that I'm talking to you
um
the Islamic Republic sending drones to
Putin to kill innocent ukrainians
right now that I'm talking to you U.S
citizen British citizen UK citizen
German citizen Swedish citizens they're
all
they are in Iranian prison being used
like bargaining chip to get nuclear deal
and then here I keep
um I keep here from uh some of the
analysts some of the apologists some of
the media and policy makers are saying
that we have to stick with you know our
policy to negotiate with the same regime
because and Iran with bomb is a very
dangerous regime for everyone but
believe me an Iran without Islamic
Republic can make the whole world much
safer place and you can actually we can
we Iranians and Western
countries we can achieve our goal when
the Islamic Republic is gone
because Iranian regime is a
is it is a cheater broker they are
cheating that you cannot trust them you
cannot negotiate with them when they lie
but they keep lying about their nuclear
activities everything so for millions of
Iranian
it's clear that if the Western countries
understand that they can achieve their
goal
if the Islamic Republic is gone
then Iran is going to be a secular
Democratic country a Young Generation
smart and intellectual uh leaders inside
and outside uh Iran they can run this
country better than khatami Harmony you
have enough faith in the in the in the
educated and competent section of the
Iranian population dispersed though it
may be to put forward a form of
governance that's going to be far
superior to what's happening now and and
you think that's a realistic possibility
it is it is it is look let me let me
tell you something um
for years and years Iranian regime were
trying to say that if you don't cover
yourself you want to be safe in public
you will get raped by men oh my God this
is their mindset they even actually
um uh made a fake news about myself as
well saying that on Iranian National
Television that massiel energy got raped
by three men in London guess why because
she undressed herself so this is the
mentality of this regime believes that
even about the metoo movements in the
west I remember that the supreme leader
Ali khamere said that on the western
feminists the Western women who are now
complaining about getting raped and
sexually harassed it's because they
don't know Islam it's their fault
because they don't wear hijab they don't
cover themselves so they deserve to get
raped this is the mindset of this regime
so of course
um the Young Generation or more
Progressive than this backward molas and
they can run this country better than
those who believe that if you get raped
it's your fault so let's go to the
particulars of your individual
experience and and the individual
experience of Iranian women you talked a
bit in this broadcast so far about the
morality police and so what did that
mean in your day-to-day life who are the
morality police how widespread and
prevalent are they what sort of people
are they and what do they do
I cannot believe it again in 21st
centuries we talk about morality police
what kind of moral that you walk in the
streets and you look around and you see
like a teenagers oh cover yourself cover
yourself if you don't cover yourself
then I'm gonna punch you on your face
yes morality police are a bunch of
officers
men and women they're receiving money
from the regime walking in public and
monitoring that whether people behave
properly whether people
um follow Sharia laws
appropriately I mean I mean
who got killed the 22 year old woman she
was not even unveiled
a little bit of her hair was visible
and that's why she got arrested you know
I really want you to uh go and check the
hashtag called um my camera is my weapon
for years and years I have been
receiving videos from women inside Iran
filming morality police if you really
want to know what morality police mean
in 21st century go and watch their
videos that bravely filming the officers
and and a bunch of backward uh you know
agents of the Islamic Republic harassing
women for the way that they've been
dressing in public and it's it's beyond
sad it's beyond sad that for years and
years women are being harassed getting
bitten up getting arrested or receiving
um lashes for not wearing appropriate
job
for for years and years and now
the whole world now finally they're
paying attention to us but believe me it
didn't need for teenagers to get killed
for the whole world to understand that
uh when we fight against compulsory
hijab we fight against one of the most
dangerous regime who dared to kill
innocent people for just you know being
um their true self and what sort of
people do you think are attracted to the
job of morality police like how would
you characterize them
um to be honest sometimes it's all about
money but sometimes they're being
brainwashed
they're being brainwashed that you're
doing for
for good of the people I mean my own
father I mean I love my father I love
him
it's not even easy to talk about it but
my own father was trying to take me to
Heaven by force
all my life all my life I can he was
kind of morality but he's
and millions of Iranian women had this
experience having morality police inside
their their own house like
father
brother telling us that cover yourself
it's for your good I'm protecting you so
you see my father didn't have any chance
to be educated properly so he was the
one being brainwashed by all the molars
clerics through uh educational system
through TV all the propaganda tools
media that you know you are the owner of
your daughter
if you don't
force her to cover her sauce then you
will be responsible as well
I mean my father and I was told through
all the clerics through TV that women
will get hanged by
they're her if they don't cover it
so my father was like okay so I'm gonna
protect my daughter that's kind of
um
brainwashed can make people to please
their own daughters to please women in
public so what what what's your if you
don't mind me asking and feel free to
reject the question
what are your parents attitudes towards
what you're doing now and the and the
profile that you've established I mean
you're not only experiencing the
division in Iranian Society at the
political and sociological level it's
being acted out in your own household
which is typically the case for deep
political issues and so how do you how
do your parents and your family
respond to what you're doing at the
present time to be honest not only my
family millions of other Muslim people
millions of other you know older
Generations who have been supporting
this regime they have changed but just
watching that how brutal is this regime
I mean I I can talk about myself again
that the Iranian regime integrated my 70
year old mother
for what I have been doing to stop her
from sharing her love with me it was
really sad watching my own sister on
Iranian National Television disowning me
publicly and it's beyond sad that the
Iranian regime actually
ask my own family to take me to Turkey
they were trying to kidnap me from
Turkey so for me
um it's heartwarming that my mom didn't
go to TV to denounce me publicly it's
heartwarming that my mom didn't want me
to be kidnapped so that's why she didn't
actually
um
she didn't actually cooperate with the
regime my brother my brother Ali oh my
God they put him in prison for two years
just because he didn't want to actually
um
um he didn't want to see his sister
being
trick from America to Turkey and being
kidnapped from Turkey so that was the
plan of the Islamic Republic so you see
I have been working really hard now I
have my family on my side which maybe
they're not saying that in public but
but by not taking me to Turkey by not
going on TV and denouncing me publicly
I love them you know I love them and
many other many other people in the
street that I see that they wear hijab
but they're supporting their daughters
many other fathers that I see that they
believe in
Islam but they don't believe in
political Islam and they don't want to
support this regime so that scares the
Iranian government that finally finally
people like my mother people who
actually were part of the Revolution to
overthrew the Shaw's regime taking to
the streets and saying that we made a
mistake
we overthrew the Shaw's regime we made a
mistake you know many people chanting in
the street saying that it's a big lie
that the Islamic Republic say that our
enemy is America our enemy is right here
is the Islamic Republic so this is the
victory so that's why I'm very very
optimistic because I believe that
um
even those who supported the Islamic
Republic now they know they know it very
well that the Islamic Republic is
against the Dignity of everyone everyone
and this is the same regime that
actually asking people to say death to
America I mean
they brainwashed me my family to say
death to America but they sent they send
their own relatives to America Jordan
right now that I'm talking to you the
children of the hostage takers
those who took American diplomats
hostage
they send their children here they live
in America they live in New York in L.A
having their luxury lives so my parents
and the older generation they're
watching this hypocrisy and finally
they're supporting the Young Generation
and they're saying that yeah they lied
to us they lied to us
their children their relatives are
enjoying freedom
they go to parties they dance they sing
they're happy in the west but here
uh the voice of Iranian people crying
for for the same freedom
crying to have the same you know dignity
it's just unbelievable
you talked as well about the corruption
of the mullers and so you know there's a
Biblical injunction it's one of the Ten
Commandments to not take God's name in
vain and people think that means don't
swear and that isn't what it means what
it means is don't use the name of God to
justify your own instrumental agenda
don't claim to be doing holy work and
good work when actually what you're
doing is promoting your own narrow
self-interest and so we have a regime in
Iran that's unbelievably corrupt the
mullah regime on the financial level and
they're justifying their imaginations
with reference to a Transcendent
Authority but but can you talk a little
bit about corruption in the mullah
establishment and how that plays itself
out in Iranian Society how do you see
that on the ground this regime is
corrupted and for years and years they
were saying that you know um we
overthrew the shots regime because we
want to help the poor people but believe
me now the relative of the more laws
their own older you know big companies
in Iran they actually the one
um receiving All the Monies that the
American government actually when they
lift up sanctions they send billions of
dollars to to Iranian government the
money goes directly to the Revolutionary
regards to the relative of the
ayatollahs and for for many years uh the
Iranian regime put the blame on the U.S
sanction but can you believe that while
we the people of Iran were suffering
from sanction the Islamic Republic
actually increased the budget of two
well-known institutions which belongs to
the son of the
Ayatollah Khomeini and the son of
Ayatollah Harmony
so the money directly goes to 51
religious institutions
including morality police
while they put the blame on U.S sanction
right so they're running a shell game to
enrich themselves financially Rich
enrich themselves and their relatives in
a dynastic and autocratic manner well
simultaneously
claiming to be acting in the name of God
and persecuting people who object as if
they're satanic objectors that's
basically the game
and so that's using the lord's name in
vain let's say but not only in Iran not
only inside Iran look just a few months
ago Salman roshdi was the target of
assassination plot right right why why
because of the fact for from the
ayatollahs from my own country I was
shocked I was shocked when I heard some
of the media in the west were saying
that the motive behind this
assassination plot of Salman Rushdie is
not clear why it is yeah right right it
is clear because when you go to the page
of this person who was trying to kill
Salman Rushdie it's full of the pictures
of ayatollah's
and the front page of the newspaper in
Iran right after the assassination plot
was
the picture of Salman Rushdie and they
were celebrating they were celebrating
the assassination plot and they were
actually saying that the next should be
massial energy
so you see yeah assassinating is in the
DNA of the Islamic Republic the supreme
leader of uh Islamic Republic
against Salman rushi just three years
ago on Twitter on his Twitter account
and then you still saying that the
motive behind this assassination plot is
not clear it is clear
that's why I'm angry very clear with the
tech companies
I'm very angry with the tech companies
still they're allowing
company and his gang of killers to enjoy
freedom of expression uh through social
yeah
while 80 million people are banned from
using the same social media Twitter
Instagram Facebook they're all filtered
in Iran
but those who order filtering they are
enjoying
um freedom on social media Iranian
people are calling every day the tech
companies Twitter
kick out the ayatollahs until the day we
have the same freedom to use Twitter
is that too much to ask yeah
well it appears to be I mean when when I
saw what happened with Solomon Rusty
must have been 25 years ago and the fat
well it was laid on him I thought the
Western response was unbelievably weak
needed and cowardly I thought we have a
real test case here the idea of freedom
of expression is being directly
challenged by this terrible regime in
Iran with uh with a price being laid on
the head of an outstanding writer who's
made his reputation in the west and all
the West did was cow Tao and become
extremely apologetic and I thought oh oh
we're in real trouble because we're too
stupid to notice that an attack on
Salman Rushdie is a direct attack by the
Iranian fundamentalists on the
fundamental notion of freedom in the
west and that's been unfolding over 25
years and as you said it culminated in
this most recent nearly fatal attack on
Rushdie and
um not only that the West has not only
that the professor at Oberlin College
right he is the one actually promoted
the fatwa against Salman Rushdie and I
don't get that how he is welcomed by the
U.S government to be a professor and
teach peace and democracy at Oberlin
College
another professor
Ani who was the minister of a culture uh
in Iran who left Iran and now he lives
in England
he actually wrote a book
and promoted the fatwa against Salman
roshni so you see this I don't get this
contradiction that at the same time you
are saying that you care about democracy
and safety of Americans and Western
people but at the same time you allow
those who promote de facto against
Salman Rashid to enjoy their freedom and
educate the Young Generation at
universities in the Western countries
they are going to ruin the mindset of
the Young Generation in America
that's why there is a huge campaign
against uh mahaloti and asking the uh
College Oberlin College to kick him out
because he was actually the one
um hiding and covering up the mass
execution because he was actually the
ambassador of United Nations during the
time when ibrahimra is he ordered
the executions of more than 5 000
political prisoners he was the one
actually here in America covering up the
mass executions and now it's still
nobody here the Cry of Iranian people
saying that he was the one promoted the
facto against Salman Rushdie as well you
know this is something uh that I
strongly believe
um the American policy makers Republican
and democrats should see this like
bipartisan issue and help us to be happy
right right
well what would you what would you like
more in more detail what would you like
Western leaders to do in relationship to
the ongoing events in Iran what do you
think would be most helpful as far as
you're concerned so if I could sit down
and talk to my prime minister Justin
Trudeau which has about as much chance
of happening as a snowball lasting on
the Sun by the way
um what do you think it is that he
should be doing that would actually be
helpful to the women and men in Iran who
are trying to fight against this
fundamentalist tyranny simple demand I
call on Justin Trudeau to put the
Revolutionary guards
on the terrorist list look three years
ago I was in Canadian Parliament
I was actually begging the policy makers
to put revolutionary guards in the
terrorist list to sanction revolutionary
guards and to sanction all the
oppressors three years ago what happened
I was ignored
I was actually under attack by
some of the Islamic Republic apologists
in Canada
and they're calling themselves activists
human rights activists but they were
echoing the voice of the Iranian regime
and attacking me bullying me why because
I asked Justin Trudeau to actually
sanction revolutionary guards what
happened by ignoring our demand the same
revolutionary guard shut down the
Ukrainian airplane and killed
176 innocent Iranian and Canadian
people so our prime minister is
hypothetically a progressive sort of
person and is hypothetically on the side
of women and so how do you account for
the fact that despite your attendance at
the Canadian Parliament and your request
for support that you never got it how do
you explain that
it it breaks my heart it breaks my heart
but as you actually got to know me
during this interview I'm not that kind
of person to give up my fight I'm not
that kind of person to give up uh having
hope to convince the leaders of
democratic countries that this is your
turn now you have to
um recognized Iran's Revolution and call
your allies get United kick out the
Islamic Republic diplomats recall the
Islamic recall your ambassadors from
Iran
and publicly announced that the nuclear
deal is dead is dead because you cannot
condemn The Killers the murderers but at
the same time trying to negotiate with
them sending billions of dollars to the
same murderers can we can we talk a
little bit about the nuclear deal is is
that a reasonable place to go I I think
there's nothing nothing else to add the
nuclear deal is already dead but what we
want we want the US government and its
allies
clearly and publicly a known stat
because this is the only thing can help
the Islamic Republic to survive
you know Islamic Republic always put the
blame on us saying that
um you know um this revolution the new
Revolution is being supported by Western
Government but believe me for its own
Survival the Islamic Republic is begging
uh for support to get support from the
Western countries we don't actually ask
for much help from the leaders of
democratic countries what we want
it's just to we want them to stick with
their own values
that's all and not save the Islamic
Republic while the Iranian people
managed to shake this regime don't go
and shake the hand of the same regime
that's all we want because we believe
that this dummy Republic is a threats
for the region and for the Democratic
countries as well
and if the Western countries looking for
its stability in the region they cannot
go and negotiate with one of the most
unstable regime they have to recognize
the Civil Society they have to recognize
this modern Progressive Revolution and
they have to stick with the people of
Iran we are
better allies than the Islamic Republic
for the Western countries
right right right so do you believe that
the revolutionary Spirit that's now
manifesting itself in Iran is that
growing or are the mullahs successfully
repressing it because it looks like a
pretty
it doesn't look to me like it's
spreading exponentially you know I can't
tell and that's part of the reason why I
wanted to talk to you today I mean the
mullers have a lot of control and they
have a lot of power and authority on
their side and so what's the situation
on the ground and around how widespread
are the protests what percentage of the
population is taking part
um I mean the Chinese successfully have
clamped down on their people time and
time again and maintain their terrible
totalitarian regime and so
what I don't understand the balance of
power in Iran at the moment do you think
that the protesters have any chance here
or are they just going to get shut down
I strongly believe that this time the
protesters are going to win the battle
because look first of all the level of
the brutality is very high I mean people
are facing executions but it's still
still every single person get killed
um people get back to the street and
turn his or her funeral like a massive
protest against the same regime but
don't forget that
um they have money
and they can actually
um you know buy some of the people to uh
to sh to shut down the protest and to
oppress the the the protesters but at
the same times the more that the Iranian
regime killed the more that Iranian
people get determined to overthrow this
barbaric regime for me and millions of
other people this time is different this
time is different because
uh this time maybe it's uh like not 2009
demonstrations in 2009 it was mostly
about election
um it's not like 2019 demonstrations
because it was mostly about economic
this time is mixed
people who believe that
um you know this regime is is against
every minority it's against uh men women
LGBT community
environments uh it's about it's against
um
Baha'i Jewish people Kurds Turk paluch
they're all got United but for years and
years the Iranian regime was stuck like
successfully could execute Kurds then
people were like okay we are not Kurds
we are not going to get involved they
were successfully executing Jewish
people Baha'i minority Arabs Turks but
now immediately when they killed maso
amini people were like we're all Masa we
were all United people didn't say that
we are not women so we're not going to
get involved with that so this time is
different because they we see a sense of
unity among Iranians inside and outside
this time is unique
because we see a sense of unity among
Iranians and non-iranians outside Iran
you see that you know finally
um people
are supposed celebrities are echoing the
voice of Iranian people
and this is the first time in our
history that we see Iranian well-known
athletes
quitting their jobs and supporting
Iranian Uprising this is the first time
that we see Iranian well-known actress
saying that we don't want to be part of
the propaganda tool
they're removing their hijab and they're
saying we want to be part of this
uprising
so that makes it different right so you
so you're making the case that this this
series of protests this revolutionary
movement in some sense is more
fundamental and also more united it's
not about economics only it's not about
the political situation and Corruption
it's about the fundamentally
totalitarian nature of the state and the
fact that it's oppressing people so
broadly that everyone can be United in
their opposition to that oppression
exactly so you see it as striking at the
heart of the totalitarian state exactly
and as I told you this is the first time
in the history that people are united in
a beautiful way and it actually
empowered many people in autocracy like
Chinese people when they took to the
streets they were actually showing their
support to to Iranian people using the
same slogan woman life Freedom people in
Afghanistan they they got empowered by
the slogan of Iranian people so clearly
uh this Uprising is encouraging uh
everyone to be part of it you know it's
beautiful it's very Progressive it's
very beautiful that you see mothers and
fathers immediately when they lose their
beloved one they take to the street and
saying that this revolution needs blood
and our beloved one you know I mean I
get goosebumps it's not easy for parents
to say that it's not easy
I'm a mother
I cannot even
imagine losing my son when I see that
brave mothers for justice in Iran
immediately when they lose their son
they get a picture of their beloved one
and they like the leading the Revolution
and saying that this revolution needs a
blood and my blood don't sacrifice her
life his life to free Iran
this is a revolution the revolution
happened inside the heart of Iranian
people you know it's very very
um powerful that you see people know
that this is not free
but they are ready to pay the price
these are like you know to me it's like
um
I'm walking in the history you know in
the history you see about you read about
heroes
but now we actually
um see the real heroes in the streets of
Iran saying that freedom is not free but
we are ready to pay the price to get rid
of the Islamic Republic
oh Mazi that's a very good place to end
I would say we've talked for 90 minutes
on YouTube thank you very much for
agreeing to talk to me today
um I hope you continue to be able to do
what you're doing and uh
and I'd like to thank you for talking to
me I'd like to thank everybody who is
watching and listening on YouTube and
the associated platforms too and if any
of you have been particularly taken by
this story today you know you could
always put pen to paper and write your
Congressman or your Senator or and let
them know that you're not all that happy
about the situation and Iran and that if
uh the politicians got their act
together and we're stalwart in their
opposition to this fundamentalist
totalitarian
misogynistic brutal regime that maybe it
could be pushed over and that would be a
nice object lesson to totalitarian
tyrants everywhere in the world and so
you'd think the West could get their act
together in relationship to that goal
and so I'm going to talk to Massey some
more on the daily wire plus platform
probably more biographically which is
what I tend to do on that in that
30-minute segment I'd like to thank the
daily wire plus people for setting up
the production for this today and
facilitating the conversation and once
again I'd like to thank you very much
for talking to me today and wish you the
best of luck in your well let's say
first year continued existence and your
continued safe existence but then also
in your attempts to
well allow your voice to
ring out
despite
the uh what would you say the cost that
you have and are likely to continue to
bear
thank you so much I hope we're gonna win
this battle on one day I'm gonna invite
you to my tiny village in Iran and you
will be able to see beautiful Iran and
Beautiful People of my country
it's a date yeah that would not be
something that would be
that would be something to look forward
to
coming true thank you so much for having
me that's for sure you bet you bet very
good talking with you
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com